This is the last module of the third
course in our specialization.
You are going to learn two
things in this module.
First, you are going to
learn the basics of how to
model problems that require yes or
no decisions.
These models use variables that
can only take on two values,
zero or one,
they are called binary variables.
There are many business problems that
can be modeled with binary variables.
So it's important that you know
the fundamentals of this model.
Second, you're going to
learn how predictive and
prescriptive analytics can be
combined in a single model.
This will illustrate how techniques
don't live in isolation,
they can work together to
tackle complex problems.
In fact, you can consider this a preview
of what we're going to ask you to do for
the capstone project for
this specialization stage.
In module three you
learned that optimization
can be used to find the best option
out of many possible alternatives.
Linear programming was a solution
technique behind the models
that we formulated.
Recall that for
linear programming to work all
the functions in the model must be linear.
That is, the functions must be sums or
differences of variables,
multiplied by constant values.
The variables in those models,
are allowed to take fractional values,
in a range that we are free to specify.
The ones that we created,
if you recall, we forced
the variables to be non-negative.
Those variables are helpful to
model many type of decisions, but
they're not helpful when the decisions
are about whether to do something or not.
For example, if you want a model to
choose a set of suppliers, then you need
variables that can tell you whether
a particular supplier is chosen or not.
This will be the same as in the situation
where you would like to choose the type
of digital ads to use in
an advertising campaign.
Anything that has to do with choosing
an item or not requires binary variables.
Models with binary variables are part
of what is called integer programming.
Solving integer programming problems
is exponentially more difficult
than solving linear programming problems.
This is why these problems are often
solved using heuristic optimization.
When a Heuristic search ends,
it can not guarantee that
the optimal solution has been found.
However, these techniques normally
find optimal solutions, or
they provide very good approximations.
In general, they can find a solution
that is much better than what you and
I could find by a manual process.
We'll discuss some fundamental concepts of
Heuristics versus optimal procedures and
we'll show some examples.
The second part of this module is
really exciting because we will combine
what you learn in module two and
module three.
Remember that in module two,
you learn about Monte Carlo simulation,
this technique allow you
to model uncertainty.
We saw that adding uncertainty
into a model is important
because expected values
tend to simplify things
too much by ignoring the full
complexity of the problem.
Well after we model uncertainty with
Monte Carlo simulation, we went back
to using respective values to create
optimization models in module three.
In part we did this because I
wanted to introduce optimization
without the complexity of
dealing with uncertainty.
But now you know the fundamentals of both,
simulation and optimization.
So it's time to combine them and
create models that use predictive and
prescriptive tools to deal with
the reality of complex decision problems.